readme.md, before:

# HELLO PROFESSOR!! THIS IS MY MIDTERM PROJECT!!

## ADVANCED PYTHON CALCULATOR FOR SOFTWARE ENGINEERING GRADUATE COURSE.

## **PROJECT OVERVIEW**

THE DESIGN OF THIS PROJECT IS IMPLEMENTED USING: 

1. [COMMAND - LINE INTERFACE ( REPL )](#1-command-line-interface--repl-) <br/>
    - [Execution of Arithmetic operations:](#-execution-of-arithmetic-operations-performs-add-subtract-multiply-and-divide-operations) <br/>
        - [Addition](#1-addition) <br/>
        - [Subtraction](#2-subtraction) <br/>
        - [Multiplication](#3-multiplication) <br/>
        - [Division](#4-division) <br/>
    - [History Management:](#-history-management-saves-loads-clears-and-deletes-the-operations-performed)
2. PLUGIN SYSTEM <br/>
3. CALCULATION HISTORY MANAGEMENT WITH PANDAS <br/>
4. PROFESSIONAL LOGGING PRACTICES <br/>
5. ADVANCED DATA HANDLING WITH PANDAS <br/>
6. DESIGN PATTERNS FOR SCALABLE ARCHITECTURE <br/>
7. CONFIGURATION VIA ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES <br/>


## **1. COMMAND-LINE INTERFACE ( REPL )**

~ The **Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL)** is used for direct interaction with the calculator in real-time. REPL is used for: 

#### ~ Execution of Arithmetic operations: Performs add, subtract, multiply and divide operations.

- [Addition](#1-addition) <br/>
- [Subtraction](#2-subtraction) <br/>
- [Multiplication](#3-multiplication) <br/>
- [Division](#4-division) <br/>


##### 1. **Addition:** 
- Sum of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/addcommand.py)

Video:  

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31b50d6f-e655-4c11-82dd-917fd73601ad





##### 2. **Subtraction:** 
- Difference of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/subtractcommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ef00c91-a9cf-425b-ab3f-2f6ccd7d2e4e


##### 3. **Multiplication:** 
- Product of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/multiplycommand.py)

Video: 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64be29b5-f0a3-4a6a-b773-1077c05bf247


##### 4. **Division:** 
- Quotient of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/dividecommand.py)

Video: 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d46c54f8-8171-441f-8e04-46143ccccc6c


#### ~ History Management: Saves, loads, clears and deletes the operations performed.

- [Save History](#1-save-history)
- [Load History](#2-load-history)
- [Clear History](#3-clear-history)
- [Delete History](#4-delete-history)

##### 1. **Save History:**
-  This stores the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/savehistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1c55528-510b-441d-a39e-0724145a3f2b


##### 2. **Load History:**
-  This loads the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/loadhistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/57690175-aaf2-432a-859e-577575e162c7


##### 3. **Clear History:**
-  This clears only in-memory history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/clearhistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bba3b243-4913-4b8c-83c6-fff7346e5e67


##### 4. **Delete History:**
-  This delete the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/historycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4675570-2d6e-44d9-a61a-4a27103b3f64


#### ~ Plugin System: The functionalities are dynamically loaded through plugins.

- The plugin folder contains the commands folders to execute the operations.

[Click to view code](.app/plugins)

Commit message:

Added description about Plugin  system

readme.md, after:

# HELLO PROFESSOR!! THIS IS MY MIDTERM PROJECT!!

## ADVANCED PYTHON CALCULATOR FOR SOFTWARE ENGINEERING GRADUATE COURSE.

## **PROJECT OVERVIEW**

THE DESIGN OF THIS PROJECT IS IMPLEMENTED USING: 

1. [COMMAND - LINE INTERFACE ( REPL )](#1-command-line-interface--repl-) <br/>
    - [Execution of Arithmetic operations](#-execution-of-arithmetic-operations-performs-add-subtract-multiply-and-divide-operations) <br/>
        - [Addition](#1-addition) <br/>
        - [Subtraction](#2-subtraction) <br/>
        - [Multiplication](#3-multiplication) <br/>
        - [Division](#4-division) <br/>
    - [History Management](#-history-management-saves-loads-clears-and-deletes-the-operations-performed)
        - [Save History](#1-save-history)
        - [Load History](#2-load-history)
        - [Clear History](#3-clear-history)
        - [Delete History](#4-delete-history)
    - [Plugin System](#-plugin-system-the-functionalities-are-dynamically-loaded-through-plugins)
2. [PLUGIN SYSTEM](#2-plugin-system) <br/>
    - [Menu Command](#-menu-command)
3. CALCULATION HISTORY MANAGEMENT WITH PANDAS <br/>
4. PROFESSIONAL LOGGING PRACTICES <br/>
5. ADVANCED DATA HANDLING WITH PANDAS <br/>
6. DESIGN PATTERNS FOR SCALABLE ARCHITECTURE <br/>
7. CONFIGURATION VIA ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES <br/>


## **1. COMMAND-LINE INTERFACE ( REPL )**

~ The **Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL)** is used for direct interaction with the calculator in real-time. REPL is used for: 

#### ~ Execution of Arithmetic operations: Performs add, subtract, multiply and divide operations.

- [Addition](#1-addition) <br/>
- [Subtraction](#2-subtraction) <br/>
- [Multiplication](#3-multiplication) <br/>
- [Division](#4-division) <br/>


##### 1. **Addition:** 
- Sum of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/addcommand.py)

Video:  

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31b50d6f-e655-4c11-82dd-917fd73601ad





##### 2. **Subtraction:** 
- Difference of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/subtractcommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ef00c91-a9cf-425b-ab3f-2f6ccd7d2e4e


##### 3. **Multiplication:** 
- Product of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/multiplycommand.py)

Video: 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64be29b5-f0a3-4a6a-b773-1077c05bf247


##### 4. **Division:** 
- Quotient of Two numbers is performed. 
- Errors are handled using try & except block if arises. 
- The program is designed to take two arguments and raises a error if more than two are given. 
- The user is asked for input, if arguments are not given.

[Click to view Code](./app/plugins/dividecommand.py)

Video: 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d46c54f8-8171-441f-8e04-46143ccccc6c


#### ~ History Management: Saves, loads, clears and deletes the operations performed.

- [Save History](#1-save-history)
- [Load History](#2-load-history)
- [Clear History](#3-clear-history)
- [Delete History](#4-delete-history)

##### 1. **Save History:**
-  This stores the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/savehistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1c55528-510b-441d-a39e-0724145a3f2b


##### 2. **Load History:**
-  This loads the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/loadhistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/57690175-aaf2-432a-859e-577575e162c7


##### 3. **Clear History:**
-  This clears only in-memory history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/clearhistorycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bba3b243-4913-4b8c-83c6-fff7346e5e67


##### 4. **Delete History:**
-  This delete the history of operations performed.

[Click to view code](./app/plugins/historycommand.py)

Video:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4675570-2d6e-44d9-a61a-4a27103b3f64


#### ~ Plugin System: The functionalities are dynamically loaded through plugins.

- The plugin folder contains the commands folders to execute the operations.

[Click to view code](.app/plugins/__init__.py)


## **2. PLUGIN SYSTEM**
- [Menu Command](#-menu-command)

- Implemented plugins architecture to extend the capabilities of the functionalities without making changes to the core application.
- The commands are loaded and integrated dynamically with plugins without modifying the application code.

#### ~ Menu Command:

- The Menu command lists all the available plugin commands.
- When "menu" is given as input, it displays all the available registered commands.
- If there are no commands registered, when given menu it displays "No commands available"

[Click to view code](.app/plugins/menucommand.py)

Video:
